This directory contains sample scripts intended to give an idea how GDAL's
Python interface may be used in your applications.

Script list:
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

assemblepoly.py		Script demonstrates how to assemble polygons from
			arcs.  Demonstrates various aspects of OGR Python API.

attachpct.py		Simple command line program for translating ESRI .prj files 
			into WKT.

fft.py			Script to perform forward and inverse two-dimensional
			fast Fourier transform.

gdal2grd.py		Script to write out ASCII GRD rasters (used in Golden
			Software Surfer) from any source supported by GDAL.

gdal_vrtmerge.py	Similar to gdal_merge.py, but produces a VRT file. 

gdalcopyproj.py		Duplicate the geotransform and projection metadata from
			one raster dataset to another, which can be useful after
			performing image manipulations with other software that
			ignores or discards georeferencing metadata.

gdalfilter.py		Example script for applying kernel based filters to
			an image using GDAL.  Demonstrates use of virtual
			files as an intermediate representation.

get_soundg.py		Script to copy the SOUNDG layer from an S-57 file to
			a Shapefile, splitting up features with MULTIPOINT
			geometries into many POINT feature, and appending
			the point elevations as an attribute.

get_world_zip.py	This little script is basically curl or wget, with the added 
			benefit of dumping the contents of the url right out to the 
			filesystem. This is useful if you want to roll curl-like 
			functionality your python script using the ZipURL class. 

histrep.py		Module to extract data from many rasters into one output.

load2mysql.py		Load an OGR layer into a MySQL datastore.  Uses direct SQL 
			since the MySQL driver is read-only for OGR.  Derived from 
			load2odbc.py

load2odbc.py		Load ODBC table to an ODBC datastore.  Uses direct SQL 
			since the ODBC driver is read-only for OGR.

rel.py			Script to produce a shaded relief image from the
			elevation data.

tigerpoly.py		Script demonstrating how to assemble polygons from
			arcs in TIGER/Line datasource, writing results to
			a newly created shapefile. 

tolatlong.py		Script to read coordinate system and geotransformation
			matrix from input file and report latitude/longitude
			coordinates for the specified pixel.

val_repl.py		Script to replace specified values from the input
			raster file with the new ones. May be useful in cases
			when you don't like value, used for NoData indication
			and want replace it with other value. Input file
			remains unchanged, results stored in other file.

vec_tr.py		Example of applying some algorithm to all the 
			geometries in the file, such as a fixed offset.

vec_tr_spat.py		Example of using Intersect() to filter based on 
			only those features that truely intersect a given
			rectangle.  Easily extended to general polygon!